So we got a data definition defined,
we got a blueprint,
we got a schema for our product. Mongoose now also works with so-called models and the model is also
what we'll export here,
so I can already say model exports
and now what I want to export is mongoose model.
Now model is a function I call and a model basically is important for mongoose behind the scenes to connect
a schema, a blueprint with a name basically,
so here you give that model a name and that name here would be product. Typically you name it here like
this with a capital starting character and then simply just well the name of the entity this reflects
in your project or in your application.
The second argument then is the schema so in my case that product schema we defined and this model is what
I export because this model is what we'll work with in our code.
So with that model defined here, we can now move over to the admin controller where we have post add product
where we do save a new product and there indeed I want to create a new product
and then I want to be able to save that. Now
for that, we can basically keep the code we have here.
We still import product from our models folder from the product file because I do export a model here
and we can basically use that just in the way I used it here. One adjustment is required though, to the
product constructor
we don't pass multiple arguments like this,
instead we pass one argument only and that one argument is a javascript object where we map the different
values we defined in our schema.
So here I would map the title to the title and you basically now have to go through all the fields you
defined in the schema, the
order does not matter though since it's in a javascript object,
so you then map let's say price to price, you map description to description and you map the image url
to image url and just in case you're wondering, the part on the right side of the colon,
so title, price, description, image url refers to the data you receive in your controller action and
the part on the left side of the colon refers to the keys you defined in your schema,
so to these things. And now with this, this creates a new product based on our model and therefore a
product managed by mongoose you could say and indeed such a product happens to have or such a model happens
to have a save method now provided by mongoose,
that's really important,
this is not defined by us. In the product model,
we define no save method, we did before but this is commented out.
So we're not defining a save method, this save method here is coming from mongoose
and then we can indeed call then on that,
technically we don't get a promise but mongoose still gives us a then method,
it also still gives us a catch method we can call and therefore this code should actually continue to
work.
Let's see if that is the case
and let's head over to our application and click on add product. Now I do get an error from app.js
because there I of course still use my user model,
let me comment that out and let me comment it out here, let me comment out that entire middleware, for
now we have no user and otherwise all requests will break for now so
let's remove all that user related stuff in the app.js file, this middleware and the user model import and with
that removed, let's try reloading that add product page
and obviously we need to import the route again,
so we should do that. Not only the get route but also the post route,
so make sure you re-add both admin add product routes, this was the wrong one, this one is required.
So make sure you have the get and the post and the product route added again because we manipulated these two admin controller
actions and now with that,
finally if I click on add product, this works
and now let's test this, let's test a test product with some price, some image,
does this work?
Click add product,
we get a page not found because we can't load any other pages, that is ok. In the code,
I can't see an error
but I got created product which looks good.
And in compass let's refresh
by clicking that icon on the top left and I connected to the wrong url,
I'll fix that,
therefore I'm connected to the test database instead of the shop database
but theoretically it worked,
theoretically we get a products collection with the product added. Now where is the products collection
coming from you might be wondering by the way because we never defined that name? Well
mongoose takes your model name, so product, turns it to all lowercase and takes the plural form of that
and that will then be used as a collection name,
so this is why our product here has a great impact because it was used for naming this collection
and here we see the data we entered.
So this is working,
that's all great,
I will still drop this collection here and quickly fix my connection settings in app.js
at the bottom of the file. Here
I do connect to the test database,
I don't want to do that,
I'll connect to the shop database instead
just as we did it before. And with this tiny change,
if I now go back to my application and I try adding this again, a book,
now let's use that book url I used before,
must read and click add product,
now this still works in the same way it did before but now if I refresh here, my data is saved in the shop
database and there in the products collection.
So this is looking really good,
we're now able to save data through mongoose.